---
date: 2026-01-17T11:00:00.740Z
updatedDate: 2026-01-17T11:00:00.740Z
description: Hanoi, Hội An, and Da Nang…a six-week introduction to Vietnam
title: Vietnam
coverPhoto: /images/2026-vietnam-cover.jpg
authors: Randi
tags: Asia
---

<script lang="ts">
  import ImageWithCaption from '$lib/components/ImageWithCaption.svelte';
</script>

**TL;DR: We spent two weeks traveling through Vietnam with friends from Colorado, visiting the capital city of Hanoi, the UNESCO World Heritage Site of Hội An’s Ancient Town, and the beachside city of Da Nang. Afterward, we spoiled ourselves with a month-long stay in Da Nang, reveling in its relaxed vibe, abundance of pickleball opportunities, and the consistent kindness of the Vietnamese people.**

If you prefer to skip the text and just browse the photos, [click here](https://photos.app.goo.gl/VCpg8Sxcvy6emmwh8). 

Vietnam hits you all at once…(mostly) in the best way. We arrived in Hanoi five days before our friends, giving us time to absorb the pulse and mystery of the city. The chaotic streets are astounding and nearly indescribable (but I’ll try). Motorbikes weave past one another in a constant, horn-filled dance that somehow always works. As a newcomer, the streets appear to be pure disorganized pandemonium. From the bus window, hundreds of scooters move elegantly around cars like a school of small fish engulfing a whale. Coming from Germany, the epitome of organization and order, the contrast was striking. Sidewalks become scooter highways, crosswalks hold little meaning, and yet, somehow, it all works. I doubt I will ever fully understand it. One unfortunate consequence of the sheer number of scooters, combined with industrial pollution, and vegetation burning, is some of the poorest air quality I have ever experienced. Far worse than in any European or U.S. city.

<ImageWithCaption url="/images/2026-vietnam-01.jpg" alt="Cars and scooters as far as the eye can see! PHOTO: AFP" />

So while the city was a wunder _[editor note from Tyler: Randi's German spelling is leaking]_, the food was amazing, we were honestly a bit relieved when our friends arrived and we headed out to the coast to the famed Hạ Long Bay for a three-day cruise. We all agreed this was the highlight of our time together in Vietnam; the views of the unique rock formations and islands were so astoundingly beautiful. We also found the reputable [Indochina Junk Dragon Legend Cruise](https://www.indochina-junk.com/dragon-legend-cruise/) to be a wonderfully indulgent experience. The cruise included extremely comfortable cabins, excellent food, kayaking, a cooking class, a visit to a floating fishing village, morning Tai Chi sessions, and a BBQ beach picnic.

<ImageWithCaption url="/images/2026-vietnam-02.jpg" alt="Yummy food on a boat!" />

Next up, we took an overnight train, which felt like a slumber party on a train, to central Vietnam for a few days in the beach city of Da Nang, as well as the UNESCO World Heritage Site of Hội An's Ancient Town. 

<ImageWithCaption url="/images/2026-vietnam-03.jpg" alt="Overnight train from Ha Noi to Da Nang" />

In Hội An we enjoyed a few days of leaning into the standard tourist activities of a cooking class, lantern making, coconut boat tour, and a guided tour of My Son, an ancient ruined Hindu temple complex built by the Champa people between the 4th and 14th centuries. As we biked along the muddy rice paddy fields, we seemed to be welcomed with a smile, wave, and friendly “hello” by nearly every local we passed, young and old. We were so enchanted by the continuous kindness of each Vietnamese person we encountered. Smiling and greeting strangers is not the norm in many cultures around the world. In Latvia I was told it is very weird to say “good morning” to a fellow hiker passing by. In Bulgaria, Tyler and I were informed that our smiling made our conversational companion uncomfortable, because it can be perceived as tricking a person. But in Vietnam, the local culture is very smiley and talkative, in a way that felt very similar to home.

<ImageWithCaption url="/images/2026-vietnam-04.jpg" alt="Randi and Eliz on a coconut boat ride!" /> 

Sadly, our friends’ trip came to an end. Tyler and I enjoyed Da Nang so much that we decided to stay for a full month. The warm winter temperatures, incredible food, and thriving pickleball scene made it an easy and joyful decision. We took long walks along the beach boardwalk, and I happily spoiled myself with pickleball lessons and daily salted-cream coffee; a Vietnamese specialty and better than any scoop of ice cream I’ve ever had.

<ImageWithCaption url="/images/2026-vietnam-05.jpg" alt="Da Nang's beach boardwalk at sunset" />   

The extreme affordability of Vietnam made indulgence almost unavoidable. From $2 bowls of velvety, rich phở; to beverages (coffee, beer, or fresh fruit juices) for under $1; $10 pickleball lessons; $10 one-hour massages; and an entire backpack of fresh produce for under $5, the cost of living is genuinely shocking. 

<ImageWithCaption url="/images/2026-vietnam-06.jpg" alt="Da Nang's beach selfie" />

Though we never fully adjusted to the madness of the motorbikes, we felt richly rewarded by some of the kindest, most welcoming, and warmest people we’ve encountered anywhere. Beneath the buzz and noise of Vietnam lies a country full of humor, generosity, and heart…and that is what grounded our Vietnam experience. That…and salted-cream coffee. 

<ImageWithCaption url="/images/2026-vietnam-07.jpg" alt="Salted Coffee's are Randi's new favorite" />

Next up for the Merry’s: We’re back in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia for a four (to six) week stay. We had the option to go to a new city/country in Asia; but to be honest, we are both feeling a bit saturated with travel and newness. Throughout 2025, we both observed a reduction in the joy and excitement we experienced in new places, countries, and cultures. Instead, we’ve mostly enjoyed locations where we could easily sustain healthy daily habits. Things like going to the gym regularly, daily journaling, playing pickleball, cooking meals, and going on daily walks. As a full-time traveler it can be very difficult to build and maintain healthy daily habits. Our environment is always new and, thus, involves a learning-curve to know where to go for groceries, signing-up for a new gym, making new friends. In Kuala Lumpur we really enjoyed the ease of many of these dynamics. On March 4th, we will return to Denver. We are both getting excited about seeing friends/family, hiking in the CO mountains, and volunteering with some of our favorite organizations from the past.    
